

Question 1: Which of the following are machine learning libraries?
1) scikit-learn
2) caffe
3) cacao
4) clio
Correction: 1, 2.

Question 2: What are the four steps of a data analysis workflow?
1) Plan, do, check, act
2) Map, reduce, sum, square
3) Collect, analyze, predict, react
4) Plan, analyze, react, feedback
Correction: 3.
Answer 1 is a management and continual improvement method. Answer 2 begins with "map-reduce" which is a key notion in distributed computing for big data.

Question 3: Name the three main formal tasks tackled by Machine Learning.
- Supervized Learning
- Unsupervized Learning
- Reinforcement Learning
- Remote Learning
Correction: 1,2,3.

Question 4: To what formal task does the prediction of a Remaining Useful Life (in predictive maintenance) belong?
1) Unsupervized learning, it is an anomaly detection task
2) Reinforcement learning, it is an optimal control task
3) Supervized learning, it is a classification task
4) Supervized learning, it is a regression task
Correction: 4

Question 5: What is the False positive rate?
1) Number of false positive (false alarms) divided by the number of alarms raised.
2) Number of false positive (false alarms) divided by the number of negatives (no failure situations).
3) Number of true positive (correct alarms) divided by the number of alarms raised.
4) Number of true positive (correct alarms) divided by the number of positives (failure situations).
Correction: 2
Answer 1 is the "false discovery rate". Answer 3 is the "precision". Answer 4 is the "recall" or "sensitivity".

Question 6: A Support Vector Machine with a Gaussian kernel...
1) ... minimizes the margin.
2) ... is generally computed on offline data.
3) ... requires absolutely no parameter tuning.
4) ... is very simple to store in memory after it has been computed.
Correction: 2, 4.
Answer 1 is false because it's actually the opposite. Answer 3 is false because one needs to tune the C and gamma parameters (at least).

Question 7: The naive Bayes hypothesis...
1) ... assumes that all problem variables are conditionally independent
2) ... assumes that input descriptors are conditionally independent given the associated output label.
3) ... allows to greatly simplify the computation of posterior probabilities
4) ... is almost never verified in practice but naive Bayes classifiers perform really well nonetheless.
Correction: 2,3,4.

Question 8: Gaussian Processes...
1) ... are a density estimation method.
2) ... provide a prediction method for continuous values.
3) ... allow to predict the average output value but also it's variance.
4) ... is a good tool for prediction uncertainty estimation.
Correction: 2,3,4.

Question 9: Artifical Neural Networks...
1) ... have been discovered in the XXIst century.
2) ... are a graph where information flows from the input to the output.
3) ... make use of activation functions such as the sigmoid function.
4) ... work exactly like natural neural connections
Correction: 2,3

Question 10: A single layered artificial neural network...
1) ... can approximate any function to any desired prediction.
2) ... will always outperform other methods.
3) ... is insensitive to overfitting.
4) ... can be trained via backpropagation.
Correction: 1,4

Question 10: Deep Learning...
1) ... was made possible by the availability of data and processing power.
2) ... refers to training Artificial Neural Networks with many layers.
3) ... is restricted to Convolutional Neural Networks.
4) ... always requires lots of data.
Correction: 1,2.
Answer 3: lots of other types of Deep Networks, as recurrent neural networks, autoencoders, bayesian confidence machines, etc.
Answer 4: not necessarily, in particular with pre-trained networks.

Question 11: A decision tree...
1) ... can represent any regression of classification function.
2) ... can be easily explained.
3) ... has leaves of different colors.
4) ... has several different roots.
Correction: 2.

Question 12: A random forest...
1) ... is an unreliable predictor.
2) ... requires a lot of hand-tuning.
3) ... exploits the sensitivity of decision trees to small changes in the data to build a robust predictor.
4) ... is prone to overfitting.
Correction: 3.

Question 13: The choice of a Machine Learning algorithm (and more generally a data analysis architecture)...
1) ... should be handled by data scientists only.
2) ... requires the combined expertise of data science experts and operational specialists.
3) ... is always reversible.
4) ... is a costly benchmarking process.
Correction: 2.

Question 14: A Data Scientist...
1) ... should have a decent knowledge in maths, algorithms, databases and implementations.
2) ... relies on a scientific literature that is always very mature.
3) ... performs better when isolated from field data
4) ... needs to master all the data processing steps, from collection to decision support
Correction: 1.

